.\" Man page for mdt_dialout_collector(1)
.\" Copyright(c) 2022-2025, Salvatore Cuzzilla (Swisscom AG)
.\" Copyright(c) 2026-present, Salvatore Cuzzilla (Avaloq, an NEC Company)
.\" Distributed under the MIT License.
.TH MDT_DIALOUT_COLLECTOR 1 "April 2026" "mdt-dialout-collector" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mdt_dialout_collector \- multi-vendor gRPC MDT dial-out collector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdt_dialout_collector
[\fB\-f\fR \fIcfg_path\fR]
.br
.B mdt_dialout_collector
\fB\-V\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mdt_dialout_collector
is a multi-vendor gRPC dial-out collector that receives YANG-modeled
network telemetry from Cisco, Juniper, Nokia and Huawei devices over the
gRPC framework and forwards the normalized stream to either Apache Kafka
or ZeroMQ for downstream consumption.
.PP
The daemon spawns one listening socket per supported vendor (each on its
own port) and one or more worker threads per vendor. Each incoming gRPC
call drives a small async state machine until the device closes the
stream. Per-vendor data manipulation routines decode the wire payload
(GPB-KV, GPB, JSON, gNMI) into a uniform JSON envelope, optionally
enriched with operator-supplied label-map data.
.PP
TLS server-side termination is supported on every vendor's port (see
.B enable_tls
in the config); IPv4 and IPv6 listening sockets are both accepted via
the
.B socket_<vendor>
keys.
.PP
The same code is also distributed as a shared library
.RB ( libgrpc_collector.so ),
allowing the gRPC dial-out path to be embedded directly into
.BR pmtelemetryd (1)
via the C bridge declared in
.IR /opt/mdt-dialout-collector/include/grpc_collector_bridge/grpc_collector_bridge.h .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f " " \fIcfg_path\fR
Path to the configuration file. When omitted, the daemon reads
.IR /etc/opt/mdt-dialout-collector/mdt_dialout_collector.conf .
.TP
.B \-V
Print the daemon version and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file uses libconfig syntax — one
.IR key " = " value\fR;
per line, comments start with
.BR # .
A typical minimal configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
iface           = "eth0";
writer_id       = "mdt-collector-01";
core_pid_folder = "/var/run/mdt-dialout-collector/";

socket_cisco   = "0.0.0.0:10007";
socket_juniper = "0.0.0.0:10008";
socket_nokia   = "0.0.0.0:10009";
socket_huawei  = "0.0.0.0:10010";

data_delivery_method = "kafka";
bootstrap_servers    = "kafka.example.org:9092";
topic                = "mdt-collector";
security_protocol    = "plaintext";
.fi
.RE
.PP
The full list of supported keys with descriptions and defaults is in
.IR /usr/share/doc/mdt-dialout-collector/CONFIG-KEYS .
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT
Graceful shutdown. Drains in-flight RPCs (5\ s deadline), shuts down
each vendor's gRPC completion queue, joins all worker threads.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Reloads the label-map data from the configured CSV / pretag-map file
without restarting the daemon. Read locks on the map are taken by every
vendor's HandleMessage path; the reload thread takes a brief write lock.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/opt/mdt-dialout-collector/mdt_dialout_collector.conf
Default configuration file (overridable via \fB\-f\fR).
.TP
.I /opt/mdt-dialout-collector/bin/mdt_dialout_collector
Daemon binary (with a symlink at
.IR /usr/bin/mdt_dialout_collector ).
.TP
.I /lib/systemd/system/mdt-dialout-collector.service
systemd unit file shipped by the package.
.TP
.I /var/run/mdt-dialout-collector/<writer_id>
PID file. Path is the value of the
.B core_pid_folder
config key joined with
.BR writer_id .
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/mdt-dialout-collector/CONFIG-KEYS
Full configuration-key reference.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The daemon returns
.B 0
on graceful shutdown and a non-zero value on configuration / startup
failure. Specific failure modes are logged to
.B syslog
or to the console (controlled by the
.B syslog
and
.B console_log
config keys).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The daemon reads no environment variables directly.
.B systemd
typically sets
.BR LISTEN_FDS / LISTEN_PID
when socket-activated, but the daemon binds its own sockets and ignores
them.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the daemon with the default configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
systemctl enable --now mdt-dialout-collector
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run with a custom configuration file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mdt_dialout_collector -f /etc/mdt-dialout-collector-staging.conf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Reload the label-map without restarting:
.PP
.RS
.nf
kill -USR1 $(cat /var/run/mdt-dialout-collector/mdt-collector-01)
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pmtelemetryd (1),
.BR systemd.service (5)
.PP
Project documentation:
.UR https://github.com/network-analytics/mdt-dialout-collector
.UE .
.SH AUTHORS
Salvatore Cuzzilla <salvatore.cuzzilla@gmail.com> and contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022\-2025 Salvatore Cuzzilla (Swisscom AG).
.br
Copyright \(co 2026\-present Salvatore Cuzzilla (Avaloq, an NEC Company).
.br
Distributed under the MIT License.
